Automotive
Uber
technology
car sharing
transport
Uber settles FTC lawsuit claiming it misled drivers about pay
Posted 1 hour ago by Kate Conger (@kateconger)

Next Story
Uber settled a lawsuit filed by the Federal Trade Commission today for $20 million. The lawsuit alleged that the ride-hailing app recruited drivers by misleading them about the amount of money they could earn through the app and the auto financing deals they could get through Uber’s Vehicle Solutions Program.
The lawsuit claims that Uber made “false, misleading, or unsubstantiated claims regarding driver earnings and its Vehicle Solutions Program.” The FTC says tha
t, although Uber advertised that drivers could earn between $16 and $29 per hour depending on the city in which they drove, only a fraction of drivers actually earned the advertised amount.
In Boston, Minneapolis and Philadelphia, fewer than 10 percent of drivers earned the advertised amount, according to the FTC. In several other cities, the rate was a bit higher — fewer than 30 percent of drivers earned the advertised rate in Dallas, Phoenix and Seattle.
Uber also promoted the Vehicle Solutions Program as a low-cost way for drivers to buy a vehicle, saying drivers would get the “best financing options available” and have “unlimited miles.” The FTC suit claims this wasn’t the case at all — in fact, Uber had “no basis” for these statements. The rates offered by Uber were often higher than those commercially available, the FTC says.
By settling the lawsuit, Uber did not admit to the allegations. An Uber spokesperson told WSJ, “We’re pleased to have reached an agreement with the FTC. We’ve made many improvements to the driver experience over the last year and will continue to focus on ensuring that Uber is the best option for anyone looking to earn money on their own schedule.”

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Uber
FOUNDED
2009
OVERVIEW
Uber, a [San Francisco](/location/san-francisco/528f5e3c90d111115d1c2e4ff979d58e)-based technology startup, is innovating at the intersection of lifestyle and logistics. Uber connects riders with safe, reliable, convenient transportation providers at a variety of price-points in cities around the world.
LOCATION
San Francisco, CA
CATEGORIES
Public Transportation, Mobile Apps, Transportation
WEBSITE
http://www.uber.com
Full profile for Uber
FTC
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Theranos' last blood lab closed after failing inspection | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes