Diversity
Amazon
veterans
Amazon is creating an apprenticeship program to train veterans for tech jobs
Posted 4 hours ago by Megan Rose Dickey (@meganrosedickey)

Next Story
Amazon and the U.S. Department of Labor have signed an agreement to create a registered apprenticeship program to train veterans for tech jobs at the online retail giant, the DOL announced today. Through ApprenticeshipUSA, people can earn a salary while learning the skills needed for the job. This comes after Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos announced last May the company’s goals to hire 25,000 veterans and spouses of military personnel over the next five years.
“We are pleased that Amazon is joining the remarkable group of forward-looking organizations that are pursuing innovations in apprenticeship for the 21st century,” U.S. Secretary of Labor Deputy Chris Lu said in a press release. “Partnerships like this one have reinvigorated our nation’s apprenticeship system, creating opportunity and pathways to prosperity for hundreds of thousands of Americans that will last for years to come.”
There are currently over 200 employers, colleges and labor organizations that have signed on to become part of the apprenticeship program. Amazon is one of the only major tech companies to create a registered apprenticeship program. Tesla Motors is listed as a company that offers registered apprenticeships, but that list does not include, for example, Apple, Google, Facebook and Microsoft.
FEATURED IMAGE: LINDA DAVIDSON/GETTY IMAGES

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Amazon
FOUNDED
1994
OVERVIEW
Amazon is an e-commerce retailer formed originally to provide consumers with products in two segments. It offers users with merchandise and content purchased for resale from vendors and those offered by third-party sellers. Operating in North American and International markets, Amazon provides its services through websites such as amazon.com and amazon.ca. It also enables authors, musicians, filmmakers, …
LOCATION
Seattle, WA
CATEGORIES
Crowdsourcing, E-Commerce, Internet, Delivery, Retail, Software
FOUNDERS
Jeff Bezos
WEBSITE
http://amazon.com
Full profile for Amazon
Amazon Web Services
Amazon Echo
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan Raised $100 Millon | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes