eCommerce
Amazon
VR
Amazon job posting suggests plan to bring shopping experiences into VR
Posted 2 hours ago by Lucas Matney (@lucas_matney)

Next Story
Amazon has stayed relatively silent on the topic of VR-based e-commerce and the VR platform in general, especially as fellow tech titans like Facebook and Google have devoted so many resources to virtual reality.
However, the company has been looking to embrace VR content. Last month the company hired former Tribeca Film Festival head Genna Terranova to oversee VR projects at the company’s studio.
Now it appears Amazon is looking to bring VR into the shopping experience. A recent job posting shows that the company is looking for a creative director of VR to “envision the future of Amazon’s VR solutions,” Variety reports.
The job is with the company’s A9 division, which oversees product search and advertising technologies. The posting claims that the division is “building Amazon’s VR shopping experience for use by millions of customers on a wide variety of VR devices.”
There isn’t too much more in the way of details otherwise; VR certainly offers consumers the chance to observe items in more detail at scale in 3D, but we’ll ultimately have to wait and see just how much Amazon wants to see shoppers put on VR headsets before they press the buy button.
FEATURED IMAGE: ERIC BRODER VAN DYKE/SHUTTERSTOCK

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Amazon
FOUNDED
1994
OVERVIEW
Amazon is an e-commerce retailer formed originally to provide consumers with products in two segments. It offers users with merchandise and content purchased for resale from vendors and those offered by third-party sellers. Operating in North American and International markets, Amazon provides its services through websites such as amazon.com and amazon.ca. It also enables authors, musicians, filmmakers, …
LOCATION
Seattle, WA
CATEGORIES
Crowdsourcing, E-Commerce, Internet, Delivery, Retail, Software
FOUNDERS
Jeff Bezos
WEBSITE
http://amazon.com
Full profile for Amazon
Amazon Web Services
Amazon Echo
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan Raised $100 Millon | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes