Policy
Samsung
Jay Y. Lee
south korea
South Korea court opts not to arrest Samsung exec Jay Y. Lee over bribery charges
Posted 3 hours ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
There’s a small glimmer of sunshine for what has been an extremely gloomy year for Samsung. A court in Seoul’s Central District has rejected an arrested warrant for Samsung vice-chairman/heir-apparent Jay Y. Lee that was issued by prosecutors earlier this week.
The warrant was a result of bribery and embezzlement charges that also landed South Korea’s recently impeached president Park Geun-hye in serious political hot water.
According to Reuters, the decision not to arrest Lee came after 22 hours of questioning and an overnight stay for the executive as the court reached its verdict.
The court issued an official statement shortly after issuing the decision. “After reviewing the contents and the process of the investigation so far… it is difficult to acknowledge the necessity and substantiality of an arrest at the current stage.”
Both Samsung and Lee have denied any wrongdoing in the case, and both are naturally happy with the outcome. The company issued its own statement in the wake of the decision. “We appreciate the fact that the merits of this case can now be determined without the need for detention.”
Of course, this is hardly the end of the saga. The scandal has proven a deep and strange one for the company and country, which, according to charges, involves the funneling of money to Choi Soon-sil, the daughter of a religious leader said to have sway over Park.
Lee, for his part, has been operating as the head of the corporation since his father, Lee Kun-hee, suffered a heart attack two years ago, and is widely considered to be his successor as the head of the company.
FEATURED IMAGE: TK KURIKAWA/SHUTTERSTOCK

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Samsung Electronics
FOUNDED
1969
OVERVIEW
Samsung Electronics is a South Korean multinational electronics company engaged in consumer electronics, information technology and mobile communications, and device solutions businesses worldwide. The company develops, manufactures, and sells various consumer products, including mobile phones, tablets, televisions, Blu-ray players, DVD players, home theater systems, digital cameras, and camcorders; …
LOCATION
Suwon, 17
CATEGORIES
Medical Device, Hardware, Software, Electronics
WEBSITE
http://www.samsung.com/us
Full profile for Samsung Electronics
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Chelsea Manning to Be Freed in May | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes