Disrupt NY 2017
disrupt new york
Startup Battlefield
Battlefield
Disrupt NY 2017 Startup Battlefield applications are officially open
Posted 5 hours ago by Matthew Panzarino (@panzer)

Next Story
Applications for Startup Battlefield at Disrupt NY are now open. We’re searching for new, up-and-coming startups to launch and compete on the  TechCrunch Disrupt NY stage.
Why Apply? Your team will get to pitch for six minutes and then face Q&A from an all-star list of judges. Past Battlefield judges have included Roelof Botha (Sequoia Capital), Fred Wilson (Union Square Ventures), and Eileen Burbidge (Passion Capital). All Battlefield sessions are live streamed to a vast, global audience via TechCrunch, Facebook, Twitter/Periscope, and YouTube. The Disrupt London Battlefield finals last December saw 80,000 viewers on Facebook Live alone.
The Battlefield winner takes home the renowned Disrupt Cup, a check for $50,000, and priceless exposure to investors and media.
To date, more than 623 companies have competed in Battlefield. They have raised more than $6.6 billion and 83 Battlefield companies have either been acquired or IPO’ed. Disrupt 2011 Battlefield company Trello was just acquired by Atlassian for $425M. Disrupt NY 2014 winner Vurb was acquired by Snapchat for $110M last year, and Microsoft acquired Disrupt NY 2016 winner Beam just four months after stepping off our stage. Not to mention Dropbox, Yammer and Mint.com, all of which have gone on to great successes after Startup Battlefield.
Disrupt NY will be held May 15-17 at Pier 36 in Manhattan. Companies selected for Battlefield will receive private pitch coaching by TechCrunch editors, free demo space in Startup Alley, invitations to VIP events, and TC swag.
Battlefield is open to startups in all verticals, including: hardware or software, international, mobility, AI, BioTech, entertainment, enterprise, and consumer goods. Companies launching for the first time to the public on our stage will be given preference. You can find the full eligibility rules here.
Applications are only open until Feb. 18 at 9 p.m. PST. To apply, head on over to the Startup Battlefield Application Page.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Chelsea Manning to Be Freed in May | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes