Government
Net Neutrality
ajit pai
FCC
Senator Al Franken
Senator Franken urges new FCC Chairman Ajit Pai to maintain net neutrality
Posted 35 minutes ago by Devin Coldewey

Next Story
Senator Al Franken (D-Minn.) has written to newly appointed FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai in defense of net neutrality, vowing to “fight to protect it every step of the way.”
Pai has publicly opposed net neutrality as championed by former Chairman Tom Wheeler since before the Open Internet order was put in place — and afterwards, published a 67-page critique of its implementation. He seems unlikely to be swayed, so this is really more gauntlet than letter that Senator Franken has sent his way.
The Senator wrote:
As Chairman, you have an obligation to protect Americans’ access to diverse information sources and to ensure that the internet remains a tool for American innovation, economic growth, and public discourse. I have no doubt that you recognize the significance of your new role, but your stated opposition to strong net neutrality rules raises serious concerns about your commitment to honoring the First Amendment.
Whatever course Pai and his colleagues on the Commission choose to pursue, it won’t be a quick reversal. Wheeler’s order can’t just be rescinded overnight; action to replace it must be proposed, debated, and publicly commented on. The original order drew some 4 million comments, mostly positive (as Franken points out), and a replacement would likely draw a similar level of attention.
The FCC has a meeting tomorrow, but net neutrality and other serious issues may not even be brought up: the agenda is full of ordinary business like TV station licensing. But anything is possible these days, and we’ll be watching; it’ll be streamed live from the FCC’s website starting at 10:30 AM Eastern.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
FOUNDED
1934
OVERVIEW
Federal Communications Commission is an independent United States agency regulating interstate and international communications by radio, television, wire, satellite, and cable in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories. The commission is the United States' primary authority for communications law, regulation, and technological innovation. Federal Communications Commission …
LOCATION
Washington, DC
CATEGORIES
Politics, Government, Privacy
WEBSITE
http://fcc.gov
Full profile for Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes