Entertainment
Netflix
brain control
hack
Netflix engineers hacked a brain-controlled interface
Posted 55 minutes ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
This is pretty much the definition unnecessary, but then, that’s part of the fun of hack days. A quartet of Netflix designers have given the world “MindFlix,” by way of a short video, highlighting the hack’s use of a the Muse headband to control the movie streaming site’s familiar interface.
“Instead of implanting chips in our brain for Hack Day,” the video explains, “we decided to take this brain reading headband to really put it to the test.”
It’s a short video – and a highly edited one. As someone who’s tried out by brain wave- and eye-controlled television interfaces, I’ll admit that I’m pretty skeptical about how smoothly the thing actually works. I’ve personally never tried one out that gave me hope that any of this will become a usable option in the near future – let alone a better one than the interfaces that are currently available. But the video and hack are clearly more about fun than developing some future version of media streaming interface.
But, as with so much of what technology has given us of late, the technology was developed with the exceptionally lazy in mind. The tongue-in-cheek video attached to the project stars a Netflix user too lazy to go in search of their lost remote control – of course, there’s no solution yet to the issue of what happens when one misplaces their headset.
The hack is one of handful that came out from the Netflix Hack Day. Others include a picture in picture option to see what other profiles tied to your account are watching, a donation feature tied to social conscious films and the hit Netflix series Stranger Things reimagined as an Atari-like video game.
 
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Netflix
FOUNDED
1997
OVERVIEW
Netflix is an online platform that enables user to watch TV shows and movies on smart TVs, gaming consoles, PCs, Macs, mobiles, tablets, and so on. It provides its services under three segments: international streaming, domestic streaming, and domestic DVD. The network enables members to access and view more than one billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including Netflix original series. …
LOCATION
Los Gatos, CA
CATEGORIES
Digital Entertainment, Consumer Electronics, Video
WEBSITE
https://www.netflix.com
Full profile for Netflix
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes