Developer
Facebook
developer
backend
parse
Facebook’s Parse developer platform is shutting down today
Posted 45 minutes ago by Fitz Tepper (@fitztepper)

Next Story
One year ago Facebook made the surprising announcement that it was shuttering Parse, the development platform that it purchased in 2013.
While the company said they would keep the service online for a year so developers could migrate their apps to a new backend, that time has finally come.
In what is probably the last ever post on the Parse blog, the service reminded users that today (January 30th, 2017) they would be disabling the parse API on an app-by-app basis.
Parse was best known for its “backend as a service” product, and provided SDKs and APIs to let developers quickly get apps up and running without the effort of building a backend from scratch. At one point there were 600,000 apps that relied on the platform.
While Parse wasn’t the most popular tool amongst experienced developers (who had the resources to build their own custom backends) it was an invaluable tool for smaller developers.
I first came across the service in high school when I was just dipping my toes into iOS development. The low cost (free for most small users) combined with relative ease of use and detailed documentation made it an invaluable tool for me and many others young developers.
That’s why the community was so shocked when Facebook decided to shut it down – supporting Parse seemed like a small price to pay to appease an entire developer community, many of whom Facebook rely on to build apps for Facebook.
Parse did publish a big migration guide as well as open source their server backend, both of which are legitimate alternatives for developers needing a Parse replacement.
Bye Parse, we hardly knew ya.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Parse
FOUNDED
2011
OVERVIEW
Parse offers cloud-based software developer kits that enable users to create apps for desktop, mobile, and embedded devices. Its product portfolio is comprised of Parse Core to save data in the cloud; make the app social; run custom app code in the Parse Cloud; schedule recurring tasks such as sending engagement emails, updating data, and long running computation; share data between platforms; and …
LOCATION
Menlo Park, CA
CATEGORIES
Android, iOS, Cloud Computing, PaaS, Enterprise Software, Mobile
FOUNDERS
Kevin Lacker, James Yu, Tikhon Bernstam, Ilya Sukhar
WEBSITE
http://parse.com
Full profile for Parse
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes