Automotive
fiat-chrysler
Fiat Chrysler under investigation by U.S. Justice Department over emissions
Posted 6 hours ago by Darrell Etherington (@etherington)

Next Story
Thursday we learned that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is investigating Fiat Chrysler U.S. (FCA) regarding alleged software-based circumvention of emissions standards. On Friday, Bloomberg reported that the U.S. Department of Justice is also looking into that same alleged failure of its responsibility to disclose the use of emissions altering software for possible criminal prosecution.
The probe into FCA is similar to the one that Volkswagen encountered in its own emissions scandal, though Bloomberg reports that fewer overall vehicles are involved in the Department of Justice’s inquiry into Fiat Chrysler. It isn’t clear how far along the DoJ’s investigation is at this stage, only that it’s underway.
The DoJ’s criminal investigation into Volkswagen resulted in criminal charges against six high-ranking employees of the automaker, who were indicted on Wednesday. FCA CEO Sergio Machine said during a media call that his company’s issues are “nothing” like the Volkswagen situation, however.
“We are confident that no one at FCA committed any fraud or tried not to be compliant,” Marchionne said, as reported by Bloomberg. “We may be technically deficient but not immoral. We never installed any defeat device.”
FCA released a statement on Thursday saying their emissions management software “meet the applicable requirements” set out by the EPA, and do not constitute “defeat devices” designed to circumvent emissions standards as laid out by the agency.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles
FOUNDED
1925
OVERVIEW
FCA US LLC is a North American automaker with a new name and a long history. Headquartered in Auburn Hills, Michigan, FCA US is a member of the Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (FCA) family of companies. FCA US designs, engineers, manufactures and sells vehicles under the Chrysler®, Jeep®, Dodge®, Ram® and FIAT® brands as well as the SRT® performance vehicle designation. The company also distributes …
LOCATION
Auburn Hills, MI
CATEGORIES
Industrial Manufacturing, Transportation, Automotive
WEBSITE
http://www.fcagroup.com/
Full profile for Fiat Chrysler Automobiles
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Fitbit Acquires Vector Smartwatch | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes