Social
iPad
computing
digital media
tablet computers
Researchers find that “moderate” screen use is OK for teens
Posted 3 hours ago by John Biggs (@johnbiggs)

Next Story
Parents rejoice! Researchers have found that “moderate” screen use “has no detectable link to well-being and levels of engagement.” This means your kids can play on the iPad for a few hours — but not all of them.
The study, led by psychological scientist Andrew Przybylski of the University of Oxford, examined the habits of 12,000 British teens, found that “the relationship between screen time and well-being is weak at best.” The self-reported data asked teens about their measure of mental well-being as well as assessed their digital activities. This including gaming, TV, and social media.
“When we looked at the existing literature as scientists, and parents, we saw an area rich in opinions but short on evidence. We were surprised how poorly linked the literature was to the advice provided to caregivers and educators,” said Przybylski.
The key, said researchers, is to find the sweet spot between high and low technology use. The teens who used technology without overdoing it at the expense of other activities actually benefited from the connectivity.
“Teens’ well-being increased as their screen time increased, up to a certain point,” wrote the researchers. “After that point, increased screen time was associated with decreased well-being.” Interestingly the researchers also concluded that the overall risks are small in any case but it is worth parents’ time to focus on finding and enforcing the sweet spot instead of banning it outright or allowing unfettered access.
“There is good reason to think that parents really struggle to meet stringent professional guidance on screen time,” he said. “Our work confirms that policy guidance on digital screens should be based on work that test explicit hypotheses about possible technology effects.”
The research will appear in Psychological Science, the journal of the Association for Psychological Science. Just don’t tell your teens.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
iPad
DESCRIPTION
The Apple iPad, formerly referred to as the Apple Tablet, is a touch-pad tablet computer announced in January 2010, and released in April
WEBSITE
http://www.apple.com/ipad
Full profile for iPad
Twitter
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Fitbit Acquires Vector Smartwatch | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes