Hardware
3D Printing
Coffee
dating
Match
Match’s pop-up coffee shop will 3D print your date’s face on a drink
Posted 5 hours ago by Fitz Tepper (@fitztepper)

Next Story
In what is clearly a (very cool) publicity stunt, Match is opening a pop-up coffee shop where it will 3D print the face of single users on the foam of your latte.
Specifically, you’ll be able to show up and pick your drink – each will feature one of eight single Match users – four male and four female. Your drink will then come with their face 3D-printed on your coffee, and the cup will have more information on the person, including a link to their Match dating profile.
You’ll also be able to get your own face printed on a cup of coffee, in case you want to hand it off to someone you’re interested in.
Match is calling the event “expresso yourself”, and it will go down next Thursday and Friday (January 19th & 20th) at Boxpark in London’s Shoreditch neighborhood.
The 3D-printing is being powered by Coffee Ripples, a startup that makes a machine dedicated to 3D printing images on foam lattes. To create the designs the machine dispenses a powder that consists of ground up coffee beans, which means it won’t change the flavor of your drink.
The startup, which launched last year, is currently shipping units mainly to smaller independent coffee shops. The device is about the size of your average 3D printer, and comes with a built-in touch screen to input your selection after you put a latte down on the print surface.
FEATURED IMAGE: MATCH VIA METRO

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Match
FOUNDED
1995
OVERVIEW
Match.com pioneered online dating when it launched on the Web in 1995 and continues to lead this exciting and evolving category after more than a decade. Throughout its 15-year history, Match.com has helped millions of singles meet and fall in love. Match.com provides a rich tapestry of ethnicities, interests, goals, ambitions, quirks, looks and personalities from which to choose. Match.com operates …
LOCATION
Dallas, TX
CATEGORIES
Social Media, Location Based Services
WEBSITE
http://www.match.com
Full profile for Match
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Fitbit Acquires Vector Smartwatch | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes