Space
NASA
Gene Cernan, the last astronaut to walk on the moon, has died at 82
Posted 1 hour ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
On December 7, 1972, NASA’s Apollo 17 mission took off under the command of Gene Cernan. Four days later, the crew touched down on the lunar surface. It was Cernan’s third and final trip to space — and, as it would turn out, the final time to date that NASA would send a team to walk on the moon.
For all the seemingly buttoned-down operations of a government organization like National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Cernan simply wasn’t able to hide a childlike excitement at becoming one of only a dozen people to walk on the lunar surface.
“We’d like to dedicate the first steps of Apollo 17 to all those who made it possible,” the astronaut radioed upon exiting the lander. “Oh my golly! Unbelievable!”
Upon leaving the moon, his words were decidedly more reflective, carrying the sort of profundity we’ve come to expect from the space program. “As I take these last steps from the surface for some time into the future to come, I’d just like to record that America’s challenge of today has forged man’s destiny of tomorrow.”
NASA reports that Cernan died earlier today in Texas, at the age of 82, after succumbing to ongoing health issues. “Gene’s footprints remain on the moon, and his achievements are imprinted in our hearts and memories,” Administrator Charles Bolden said in a statement released by NASA.
During his career at NASA, the former Navy pilot became one of three people to travel to the moon twice, having also been aboard Apollo 10, the so-called “dress rehearsal” for the first moon landing. He also became the second American to walk in space as a pilot on the harrowing Gemini 9 mission.
Cernan again, in his own words:
We truly are in an age of challenge. With that challenge comes opportunity. The sky is no longer the limit. The word impossible no longer belongs in our vocabulary. We have proved that we can do whatever we have the resolve to do. The limit to our reach is our own complacency.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
NASA
FOUNDED
1958
OVERVIEW
NASA's vision is to reach for new heights and reveal the unknown so that what we do and learn will benefit all humankind. President Dwight D. Eisenhower established the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1958, partially in response to the Soviet Union's launch of the first artificial satellite the previous year. NASA grew out of the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics (NACA), …
LOCATION
Washington, DC
CATEGORIES
Robotics, Politics, Aerospace, National Security, Space Travel, Information Technology, Open Source, Technical Support
WEBSITE
http://www.nasa.gov/
Full profile for NASA
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Nintendo Switch Hits the Market on March 3 | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes