Hardware
Samsung
note 7
Verizon
Verizon takes yet more evasive action as ‘thousands’ of customers refuse to give up their Note 7
Posted 30 minutes ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
It was understandably difficult for Note 7 owners to abandon their device. After all, it was a well-received handset, save for…that one thing…
Still, as Samsung has routinely reported, return rates have been high for the device. At last count, the electronics giant touted a 96-percent return rate on the phone (tied to a bit of news about the FAA no longer having to announce its ban on flights). But, as anyone with a basic understanding of math will happily tell you, 96 is not 100.
So, what’s to be done about all of those Note fans unable to give up the dream? Apparently Verizon [which owns the company that owns TechCrunch] still has a glut of them on the order of “thousands,” who are still holding on in spite of the carrier’s recent software update that stopped the phone from charging.
The company told Fortune that it will be taking things a step further, prohibiting the handsets from making any non-emergency outgoing calls, by rerouting them to Verizon customer service.
The move comes as Samsung attempts to finally put the whole saga behind it by issuing the results of its official investigation into Note 7 explosions, most likely later this month. We’ve reached out for additional comment.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Verizon Communications
FOUNDED
1983
OVERVIEW
Verizon Communications is a broadband and telecommunications company that operates 4G LTE and 3G networks as well as provides information and entertainment services. The company serves mass market, business, government, and wholesale customers by delivering broadband and other wireline and wireless communication innovations. Verizon Communications Wireless operates America’s largest wireless network …
LOCATION
New York, NY
CATEGORIES
Information Technology, Mobile, Communications Infrastructure
WEBSITE
http://www.verizon.com/
Full profile for Verizon Communications
Verizon Wireless
Samsung Electronics
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Samsung Leader Bribery Charges | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes