Google
google+ platform
Google+ won’t go away
Posted 6 hours ago by Megan Rose Dickey (@meganrosedickey)

Next Story
Since Google+ is still alive and kicking, Google is rolling out three updates to the product over the next couple of weeks. For one, those who still use Google+ will be able to hide low-quality comments so that they can focus “on the comments that matter most,” Google+ Product Manager Danielle Buckley wrote on the company’s blog today.
Another update entails zoom capabilities on photos and making it so that you’ll see less white space on the screen.  Back in the day, when I dabbled with Google+, I do remember seeing a bunch of beautiful photos on the site, but I just wonder how many there are these days.
Anyway, Google seems most excited about the return of Events. Starting January 24, people will be able to create and join events on Google+. That date also marks the official end of the old Google+, but fear not! Google is not ready to totally throw in the towel just yet.
In 2015, Google+ began its evolution from a basic social network to one that focuses on content curation. As part of that evolution, Google redesigned Google+ and introduced more tools for community moderators and a way to add images and links to comments.
“Just because we’re bidding adieu to classic Google+,” Buckley wrote, “doesn’t mean we’re done working on the new one.”
Phew.
FEATURED IMAGE: BRYCE DURBIN

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Google+
DESCRIPTION
A Google project headed by Vic Gundotra and Bradley Horowitz, Google+ is designed to be the social extension of Google.
WEBSITE
https://plus.google.com/
Full profile for Google+
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Samsung Leader Bribery Charges | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes