Government
drones
FAA
settlement
US regulators hammer down on unauthorized drone use
Posted 4 hours ago by Lora Kolodny (@lorakolodny)

Next Story
The Federal Aviation Administration and Skypan International in Chicago have settled a civil suit that was closely watched by the nascent commercial drone industry. The government agency said the privately held company flew its drones over New York City and Chicago, violating its rules which bar drone operators from flying over densely populated areas without special government permission to do so.
The FAA-Skypan settlement follows a case in Seattle  last week where the city charged and a jury convicted a man, Paul M. Skinner, of reckless endangerment after he crashed a 2 lb. drone into a building during the June 2015 Pride Parade there. The drone hit a woman in the head, and she suffered a concussion. Skinner is facing up to one year in jail and a $5,000 fine with sentencing scheduled for Feb. 24th.
The FAA originally sought a $1.9 million penalty from Skypan in October 2015, representing the largest fine ever sought by the agency against a domestic drone operator. Skypan, which was founded in 1988, provides aerial photography and data to developers to help them with planning, sales presentations, and more.
The settlement has Skypan agreeing to pay a much lower penalty of $200,000 to the FAA over three years, and creating public service announcements that promote safe use of drones and cooperation with the FAA within the industry this year. If Skypan commits any violation of current FAA rules in the next year, it will pay $150,000 more. And if it fails to deliver those PSA’s or adhere to other terms of the settlement, it will also pay $150,000 more.
In a press statement, Skypan International did not admit to guilt but said it wanted to settle in order to avoid delays in other areas of its business. The company statement says Skypan attained a “333 exemption” from the FAA to fly drones for commercial purposes as soon as it could, in 2015.
FEATURED IMAGE: BRYCE DURBIN

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Federal Aviation Administration
FOUNDED
1958
OVERVIEW
In August 1958, more than 50 years after the Wright brothers gave life to the age-old dream of flight, the FAA was created to usher in the Jet Age of commercial air transportation. Over the next five decades and up to the present day, the FAA has served as both an overseer and proponent of advancements in aviation that continue to push the limits of science and technology. Today we're on the leading …
LOCATION
Washington, DC
CATEGORIES
Drones, Aerospace, Navigation
WEBSITE
http://www.faa.gov
Full profile for Federal Aviation Administration
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Samsung Leader Bribery Charges | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes