Apps
Snapchat
Snap
Sony Entertainment CEO Michael Lynton is now Snapchat’s chairman
Posted yesterday by Matthew Lynley (@mattlynley)

Next Story
Michael Lynton, the CEO of Sony Entertainment, will be stepping down from the company in order to serve as chairman of Snap (the makers of Snapchat), according to The Hollywood Reporter.
Lynton’s name may sound familiar with respect to Snap. During his time at Sony Entertainment, he oversaw the company suffer a massive breach — which also included a trove of leaked emails between Lynton and various Snapchat executives and investors. In those emails it was revealed that Snapchat bought a set of smaller companies, but also indicated the deeper involvement Lynton (an early investor and board member) had with the company and some of the company’s future prospects.
Related Articles
Snapchat launches universal search to simplify navigation
The reality of VR/AR growth
Snow, the Asian Snapchat clone Facebook tried to buy, claims 40-50M monthly users
Weekly Roundup: Obama imposes sanctions on Russian intelligence, Snapchat and Oculus eat up startups
As CEO of a massive entertainment company, it would make sense that Snap would need someone like that helping to support the company’s executive team with experience and connections and be involved in the overall strategy of the company. Snap increasingly has to court advertisers and people with massive audiences on other platforms if it’s going to convince Wall Street that it has the potential to be a strong public company.
The Wall Street Journal reported that Snap quietly named Lynton as its chairman late last year.
So, now Lynton will be taking over a larger role in guiding Snapchat (sorry, Snap) as it moves forward toward its initial public offering, which is expected to happen early this year. Snap is expected to be valued north of $20 billion when it goes public. The company is also projecting to generate $1 billion in revenue this year, and is probably one of the most hotly anticipated IPOs in the past few years.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
SNAP
FOUNDED
2010
OVERVIEW
SNAP is an award-winning, easy-to-integrate platform designed to modernize traditional in-store loyalty programs by expanding upon them to include today's most popular social media networks. SNAP is the first platform to bring social media posts and passive check-ins to the growing masses of location-based check-in and social network users. SNAP offers businesses large and small the ability to creatively …
LOCATION
Pearl River, NY
CATEGORIES
Location Based Services
WEBSITE
http://www.snapforbusiness.com
Full profile for SNAP
Snap Inc.
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Nintendo Switch Hits the Market on March 3 | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes