Hardware
LG
CES 2017
CES
LG’s Hub Robot sounds like a mobile Amazon Echo
Posted yesterday by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
LG and Samsung have really taken advantage of the calm before the CES storm by teasing out their product announcements, one by one. LG’s certainly ahead in terms of sheer strangeness here, having already announced a floating speaker and a wearable speaker collar.
The Seoul-based electronics giant will also apparently be showing off a bunch of robots at the show. It’s not the company’s first robotic rodeo, of course, having already released some robotic vacuum cleaners and, at the very least, shown off some…interesting takes on the space, including the Rolling Bot that debuted at MWC last year (below).
A trio of “non-cleaning” robots teased by the company, include what sounds like a lawn mowing model, a commercial model designed to offer up travel info to humans at airports and hotels and the Hub Robot – which, from the sound of things, is a bit like a mobile Amazon Echo.
There’s very little to work with at the moment, but the company is calling the “Hub Robot” (their quotes, mind) “smart home gateway and a personal assistant for consumers.” All of the above robots will be equipped with some form of AI, according to the company, but it’s hard to say how far that will extend before Alexa-style question answering and home automation.
Keep in mind that the company announced the SmartThinQ Hub (pictured at top), an Echo-style speaker that later incorporated Alexa functionality. If I had to guess, I’d say the Hub is will look similar to the company’s HOM-BOT, while trading in cleaning for personal assisting.
Whatever the case, we’ll find out in a matter of days.
Latest from CES 2017
Samsung is bringing an Amazon Echo compatible
LG's headset that doubles as a wearable
Sylvania’s new smart bulb connects to

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
LG
FOUNDED
1958
OVERVIEW
LG is a South Korean multinational company which includes LG Electronics. LG Englewood Cliffs is a new building initiative that protects the palisades and creates homes for the growing U.S. workforce.
LOCATION
Seoul, 11
CATEGORIES
Consumer Electronics, Hardware, Software, Information Technology, Telecommunications, Electronics
WEBSITE
http://www.lg.com
Full profile for LG
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
LATEST CRUNCH REPORT
Happy New Year from Crunch Report!
Watch More Episodes