Government
Airbnb
brian chesky
donald trump
trump
Airbnb offers free housing to people stranded by immigration order
Posted 35 minutes ago by Kate Conger (@kateconger)

Next Story
In the midst of chaos caused by President Donald Trump’s executive order, which stranded refugees, students and green card holders in American airports, Airbnb is offering housing to those affected.
The executive order was countered with legal action and protests, which allowed some of the people detained in airports to be released. But it’s still not clear how Customs and Border Protection will enforce Trump’s order, and travelers may still find themselves turned away from U.S.-bound flights or detained upon arrival.
Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky is one of many tech executives who spoke out yesterday against Trump’s refugee ban. But Chesky took his remarks one step further last night, offering housing to refugees and others impacted by the order. “Airbnb is providing free housing to refugees and anyone not allowed in the US,” he tweeted. “Stay tuned for more, contact me if urgent need for housing.”
An Airbnb spokesperson told TechCrunch that the company will leverage its existing disaster response program, which asks hosts to offer housing to people displaced by natural disasters and to aid workers. Other resources may also be necessary — for instance, if there are no nearby hosts available — and Airbnb has promised to share additional detail about its plan in the coming days.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Airbnb
FOUNDED
2008
OVERVIEW
Airbnb is a community marketplace for people to list, discover and book unique spaces around the world through mobile phones or the internet. Whether an apartment for a night, a castle for a week, or a villa for a month, Airbnb connects people to unique travel experiences at any price point, with [over 2M listings in 34K cities and 192 countries](https://www.airbnb.com/about/about-us). With a growing …
LOCATION
San Francisco, CA
CATEGORIES
Marketplace, Travel, Travel Accommodations, Sharing Economy, Hospitality
WEBSITE
http://airbnb.com
Full profile for Airbnb
Brian Chesky
Donald J. Trump
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes