Gadgets
Uber
Lyft
immigration ban
donald trump
Uber apologizes for “confusion” at JFK during immigration protest
Posted 8 hours ago by Matthew Lynley (@mattlynley)

Next Story
Uber has apologized today for promoting surge pricing to and from JFK during yesterday’s protest and taxi strike.
After the enactment of an executive order barring refugees and visa holders from seven countries from entering the U.S., protests gathered at JFK International and the NY Taxi Workers Alliance called for a stop on pickups from the airport. Uber said that riders could go to and from JFK without surge pricing, prompting major public backlash that the company was taking advantage of the situation. The whole fiasco led to a trending #deleteuber tag, calling on users to delete the app and switch to alternatives like Lyft.
‘We’re sorry for any confusion about our earlier tweet — it was not meant to break up any strike,” a spokesperson for Uber said. “We wanted people to know they could use Uber to get to and from JFK at normal prices, especially last night.”
Uber was one of the first to come out publicly with a direct and measurable way to address the ban, but the #deleteuber movement is a reminder of how quickly good will can be undone with a communications misfire — especially for the aggressively-expanding Uber. Instead of being perceived as something that would assist riders in the midst of the protest, it was quickly labeled as an attempt to bust the strike. While it’s not clear how large the movement has become, it’s attracted a lot of attention on Twitter and other platforms.
It’s another public stumble for Uber, which has continually faced optics issues as its grown into a nearly $100 billion company. CEO Travis Kalanick was appointed to President Donald Trump’s Strategic and Policy Forum in December last year (along with Elon Musk), and as pressure mounts on tech companies to take a stance on Trump’s new policies Kalanick and Uber have been in the public’s crosshairs.
Thousands descended upon JFK last night in protest of the ban, which at one point led to New York governor Andrew Cuomo reversing a decision and allowing the JFK AirTran to continue to operate. The NY Taxi Workers Alliance called for drivers to not pick up passengers from JFK from 6pm to 7pm on Saturday night, which also called on Uber drivers to do the same. The tweet from Uber went out at 7:36pm, meaning it had been initiated after the time cited.
Related Articles
Airbnb offers free housing to people stranded by immigration order
Lyft donates $1M to the ACLU, condemns Trump's immigration actions
Apple CEO Tim Cook sent an email to employees about the immigration ban
Uber CEO offers compensation for drivers impacted by immigration ban, will talk to Trump
While the comment was seemingly just an FYI for potential passengers trying to get to and from the airport, for Uber it was another misstep in its attempt to build up good will. Uber said today it would create $3 million defense fund to help cover legal, immigration and translation costs for drivers affected by the immigration ban, with Kalanick further clarifying his stance on the ban and calling it “wrong and unjust.”
Uber was quick to respond to the executive order, with Kalanick saying he would address it in President Trump’s first business advisory group meeting. Kalanick also said in a memo to company that it would be identifying drivers affected by the ban and compensate them pro bono during the next three months to cope with the potential fallout from the ban. Uber’s ongoing competitor Lyft also came out strongly against the ban, and said it would donate $1 million to the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) over the next four years.
Throughout Saturday, executives and prominent members in the tech industry sounded off on the immigration ban — either publicly or through internal communications that became public. It’s been a tricky situation as the largest tech companies in the world find themselves having to find ways to navigate the new administration despite a critical eye on each company’s specific stance on various issues, and Uber in particular has already faced plenty of optics issues even prior to the new administration.
FEATURED IMAGE: REUTERS/LUCY NICHOLSON/FILES

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Donald J. Trump
BIO
Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American business magnate, investor, author, television personality and the newly elected President of the United States in the 2016 presidential election. He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization, and the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts. Trump's career, branding efforts, lifestyle and outspoken manner helped make him a celebrity, …
Full profile for Donald J. Trump
Uber
Lyft
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes