Enterprise
mika
Nokia
Nokia introduces MIKA, a digital assistant for engineers and telecom operators
Posted 8 hours ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
Nokia’s got a nice, adorable name picked out for its new voice assistant. MIKA stands for “Multi-purpose Intuitive Knowledge Assistant,” letting engineers and telecom operators access information through voice commands.
The system is powered by the company’s cognitive services platform, using “augmented intelligence with automated learning to provide access to an extensive range of tools, documents and data sources.”
Essentially MIKA is designed to offer quick answers to engineer questions, based on experience drawn from other networks – so, it’s not entirely unlike Siri or Alexa, but it’ll provide answers to engineering questions, instead of turning on a smart lightbulb or checking the local weather.
The announcement comes as the company’s been building a fair amount of heat in the weeks leading up to Mobile World Congress. The world’s biggest phone show is set to see the once-beloved brand’s big return to the smartphone space it once so unceremoniously left behind.
Of course, that’s the HMD version, the Nokia name being licensed out by a local company formed from ex-pats of the tech giant. Those devices are more likely to get paired with Google Assistant than Nokia’s new offering.
  FEATURED IMAGE: SHUTTERSTOCK

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Nokia
FOUNDED
1865
OVERVIEW
Nokia is a Finnish multinational communications corporation engaged in the manufacturing of mobile devices, network infrastructure, location-based technologies, and advanced technologies businesses worldwide. The corporation is also engaged in converging internet and communications industries. It manufactures a wide range of mobile devices with services and software that enable people to experience …
LOCATION
Helsinki, 13
CATEGORIES
Software, Telecommunications, Mobile
WEBSITE
http://nokia.com
Full profile for Nokia
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
AppDynamics CEO Talks Cisco Acquisition | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes