Apps
Snapchat
finance
IPO
Snap will reportedly file publicly for its massive IPO late next week
Posted 40 minutes ago by Matthew Lynley (@mattlynley)

Next Story
Snap — the makers of Snapchat — had confidentially filed for its IPO late last year, but it looks like we’ll be getting a look at the inner guts of the company’s financials and workings as early as late next week.
The company will file publicly for its initial public offering late next week, according to a new report from Kara Swisher over at Recode. This is yet another step that brings the company closer to being a publicly-traded company, which will finally give Wall Street a tech IPO in 2017 following AppDynamics being snapped up just before its IPO scheduled for this week. Snap’s IPO will likely set the benchmark for technology companies looking to go public throughout the year.
Related Articles
Trying out Snapchat's new universal search capabilities
This Snapchat Spectacles case melted while charging
Kik snaps up video chat app maker Rounds for a reported $60-$80 million
Microsoft is killing Xbox One's Snap mode
Following its public filing, Snap will begin its roadshow, where it’ll pitch its case to Wall Street on why it’ll be a strong successful publicly-traded company — and why they should buy into the stock. So we should expect to see the official IPO — and the steps toward it like its pricing — in March. Snap is expected to be worth more than $20 billion in its IPO after projecting that it will generate more than $1 billion in revenue this year.
Filing confidentially let Snap test the waters for what kind of appetite Wall Street would have for the company’s shares. Snap has around 150 million daily active users (as of what we know most-recently) and will be essentially be pitching itself as an advertising platform that either lives alongside Facebook and others, or a complete replacement due to the differences in user behavior.
Snap CEO Evan Spiegel’s pitch, however, seems to have become increasingly difficult. Facebook has frantically sought to tear away its users with products like Facebook and Instagram stories, looking to mimic the company’s features. Snap will have to convince Wall Street that it’s products are better — and its use base more differentiated — from Facebook and its attempts to build those similar features.
This IPO too comes at a time when Facebook has flagged to investors that it is hitting its maximum advertising load, forcing it to move its pitch to a company innovating around new products and platforms like Oculus while its breakneck advertising growth is expected to slow.
A representative from Snap declined to comment.
FEATURED IMAGE: DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG/GETTY IMAGES

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Snap Inc.
FOUNDED
2011
OVERVIEW
Snap, formerly Snapchat Inc, is a privately owned multinational camera company. The company announce the rebranding on September 24, 2016 as it introduces its new product called Spectacles.
LOCATION
Venice, CA
CATEGORIES
Photography, File Sharing, Messaging, Apps, Mobile
FOUNDERS
Evan Spiegel
WEBSITE
https://www.snap.com/en-US/
Full profile for Snap Inc.
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
AppDynamics CEO Talks Cisco Acquisition | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes