Cloud
Google
G Suite
google cloud
More than 3M businesses now pay for Google’s G Suite
Posted 35 minutes ago by Frederic Lardinois (@fredericl)

Next Story
During today’s earnings call, Google CEO Sundar Pichai announced a new milestone for the adoption of Google’s G Suite productivity tools. “G Suite achieved a significant new customer milestone last quarter,” he said. “More than 3 million paying businesses are now using G Suite to collaborate smartly and securely in the cloud.”
The last time Google announced a similar milestone was in November 2015. At that time, what was then called Google Apps for Work was being used by 2 million paying businesses.
Pichai attributed G Suite’s success — especially with enterprise customers — to Google’s ability to provide its users with a highly secure platform. He also noted that Google continues to focus on expanding the partner ecosystem around G Suite (as well as the Google Cloud Platform). “Our customers and partners are appreciating Google Cloud’s dramatically accelerated pace of product rollout as well as our responsiveness to both their needs and aspirations,” he added.
It’s no secret that Google is currently heavily focused on getting more enterprises to adopt its tools and services. This includes both its G Suite productivity tools as well as its cloud computing platform. At its Horizon event last September, the company combined all of its cloud infrastructure and productivity tools under the Google Cloud moniker.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Google
FOUNDED
1998
OVERVIEW
Google is a multinational corporation that is specialized in internet-related services and products. The company’s product portfolio includes Google Search, which provides users with access to information online; Knowledge Graph that allows users to search for things, people, or places as well as builds systems recognizing speech and understanding natural language; Google Now, which provides information …
LOCATION
Mountain View, CA
CATEGORIES
Search Engine, Blogging Platforms, Ad Network, Collaboration, Email, Video Streaming, Software, Enterprise Software
WEBSITE
http://www.google.com/
Full profile for Google
Google Cloud Platform
G Suite
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
AppDynamics Acquired for $3.7 Billion | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes