Apps
dating apps
dating
The League
The League brings its picky dating app to Android
Posted 35 minutes ago by Anthony Ha (@anthonyha)

Next Story
The League, the dating app known for its exclusivity, has now officially launched on Android.
The company has been accused of elitism, though founder and CEO Amanda Bradford has said her vision is more about creating a service that welcomes ambitious women. The app still makes users apply to join, and it screens them based on their Facebook and LinkedIn profiles, but it also redesigned last year with a bigger focus on events and community.
The startup started out focused on iOS, but for the past four months, it’s been beta testing on Android. It’s now officially launched its Android app in each of The League’s cities — San Francisco, New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston and Washington, D.C.
Related Articles
The League launches a rebuilt, event-centric dating app
Investors Join Dating App The League With $2.1 Million Seed Round
If You're Asking, You're Not Getting In The League's New Dating App
“By design, The League’s target demographic is incredibly small ­— we’re only accepting 10-­20% of users who sign up,” Bradford said in the launch release. “Opening up to Android allows us to double our user base without lowering our acceptance standards, while also increasing diversity of our user base. We can also now finally expand internationally ­— something we plan to do this spring.”
Judging from those beta testers, Android users on The League are a lot nicer than their iOS counterparts. The company says those users reply 76 percent more often, ghost people 63 percent less often and turn their online matches into offline dates 24 percent more often. Though maybe that’s because the initial batch of users was just super-excited to finally join?
You can download the Android app here.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
The League
FOUNDED
2014
OVERVIEW
The League is a dating application that enables users to find and socialize with similar individuals. It was launched by Amanda Bradford in June 2014 and is based in San Francisco, California.
LOCATION
San Francisco, CA
CATEGORIES
Social Media, Apps, Dating
FOUNDERS
Amanda Bradford
WEBSITE
http://www.theleague.com/
Full profile for The League
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
AppDynamics Acquired for $3.7 Billion | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes