Gadgets
Space
Boeing
Boeing shows off the spacesuit astronauts will wear on the Starliner
Posted 1 hour ago by Devin Coldewey

Next Story
The commercial spaceflight industry is doing a great job creating new rockets, launch vehicles, and all that good stuff, but spacesuits are still largely stuck in the past. Boeing has publicly debuted what astronauts on its Starliner craft will be wearing, and it looks like a big improvement.
Chris Ferguson, former astronaut and now leader of Boeing’s Starliner Crew and Mission Systems, showed off the suit for the cameras yesterday.
This one isn’t for doing spacewalks, but rather for getting the astronaut from the staging area of the launch to the relative safety of the space station, and vice versa. It still needs to be airtight and resistant to extreme temperatures and other “extremis” situations — just not to hard vacuum and cosmic radiation. But there was definitely room to improve on the bright orange Advanced Crew Escape Suits made by NASA since the ’90s.
“We’ve simplified the suit,” Ferguson said in a Boeing video. “Astronauts formerly had these relatively bulky heavy suits with thick neck rings, and we learned throughout the years maybe we didn’t need that.”
    Related Articles
SpaceX successfully lands its first-stage Falcon 9 rocket on drone ship
A new private space race as Boeing CEO says he'll beat SpaceX to Mars
Elon Musk says he'll start digging a tunnel from SpaceX HQ next month
The “Boeing Blue” suits weigh 12 pounds to the ACES’ 30, and are more compact while still building in plenty of functionality. They’re cooler inside, more flexible, have comms built into the helmet, and lack the big metal neck ring — instead, the helmet attaches with a zipper and hangs back like a hood when not in use.
The shoes, designed by Reebok, are more like giant soft runners than boots, and the gloves come with that all-important 21st-century feature: they’re touchscreen-friendly.
Boeing plans to send its first commercial crew up on the Starliner CST-100 launch vehicle in 2018, and they’ll be wearing these suits.
Now the question is, will SpaceX leapfrog Boeing with an even cooler suit? Chances are we’ll find out soon — they can’t afford to let Boeing hog the spotlight for too long.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
The Boeing Company
FOUNDED
1916
OVERVIEW
The Boeing Company is an American multinational corporation that designs, manufactures and sells fixed-wing aircraft, rotorcraft, rockets and satellites and provides leasing and product support services. Boeing is among the largest global aircraft manufacturers, is the second-largest aerospace & defense contractor in the world based on 2012 revenue and is the US' largest exporter by dollar value. Boeing …
LOCATION
Chicago, IL
CATEGORIES
Aerospace, Transportation, National Security, Manufacturing
WEBSITE
http://www.boeing.com
Full profile for The Boeing Company
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
AppDynamics Acquired for $3.7 Billion | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes