Gadgets
Chair
technology
treadmill desk
Desks
The Edge Desk goes beyond the ball with a portable ergonomic desk system
Posted 5 hours ago by John Biggs (@johnbiggs)

Next Story
I’ve done it all. I have a standing desk. I have a sitting ball. I have a treadmill. And now I just might go back to where it all started with the Edge Desk.
This Kickstarter darling raised $500,000 to produce what amounts to a portable kneeling desk. It has a huge work surface – 20×30 inches – and costs $350 for the entry level model. It folds up flat for storage and takes up about as much space as a standard office chair.
The question is, then, what does a kneeling desk do for you and your back. Essentially kneeling is approximately the same as standing to work and it’s less strain on your legs and knees. I can comfortably sprawl on the Edge for a few hours but I have to sit down every half hour or so at my standing desk. This has gotten better over time but I do enjoy the upright posture this thing affords.
Better still the huge work surface can flip up to act as an easel or remain in portrait mode so you can put a laptop and mouse in front of you. While I wouldn’t put an external monitor on this thing I could see it as an alternative workspace in an open plan office, for example, and a welcome respite to the desk chair/standing desk ritual.
There are cheaper kneeling desks out there to be sure. You can get a cheap one for $59. However, if you want to build up and break down your desk and chair on a daily basis or want the workspace, the Edge is a better solution.
How did I like it so far? Take a look at this hunk of beef splayed out on a kneeling desk.
I can tell I’m sitting straighter, for one, and I do enjoy the ability to expand and contract the chair as necessary. I could also see this as a solution for a smaller space – a New York apartment, for example – since it folds up so compactly.
$350 is a lot for a kneeling chair. It’s not that much for a kneeling desk and it’s also not much for a desk that can double as an art studio. It’s been a fun few days with the Edge desk and I could see it joining my other ergonomic friends in my attic office. Move over, big blue sitting ball. There’s a new seating arrangement in town.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Desks Inc
OVERVIEW
For over 50 years, Desks Incorporated has sold office desks, office chairs, and cubicles in Denver, Colorado and throughout the U.S.
LOCATION
Denver, Colorado
WEBSITE
http://desks-incorporated.com
Full profile for Desks Inc
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan Raised $100 Millon | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes