eCommerce
Amazon
candy
e-commerce
artisan
Amazon’s latest Dash button will send you a randomly assorted box of candy
Posted 3 hours ago by Fitz Tepper (@fitztepper)

Next Story
Amazon’s latest (physical) Dash button is like a “I’m Feeling Lucky” for candy.
When pressed, the button will send you a box with a random assortment of small-batch candy made by “artisans from across the nation.” The box will cost $18 (with two-day free Prime shipping, of course) and can be ordered as many times as you want.
The program is called Prime Surprise Sweets, and seems to have quietly launched sometime within the last month. It’s still in invite-only mode — but Amazon says you will hear from them within a few weeks if you request an invite. We’ve reached out to Amazon to ask when this will roll out to the public, and will update this if we hear back.
So what will you get in your box? Amazon has some examples on their website, but most boxes seem to include about four different treats. Some examples are almond toffee, a caramelized blood orange chocolate bar and “espresso-rich Seattle style popcorn.”
    Each box will also have a tasting card sharing the story of each artisan and the details of what they created. Amazon also says they will try to give you a different assortment of treats each time you order, unless you order two at once, which may result in a duplicate box.
There’s no denying that these types of assortments are traditionally associated with a gift. But interestingly, Amazon isn’t currently allowing gifting of these boxes. This may be because of the logistics of it — a Dash button is programmed to send something directly to your house, and thus not require the additional step of adding someone’s address.
Of course you could get it delivered to you and gift it by hand (or re-mail it), but it seems like Amazon’s intentions here are more about providing customers with a fun surprise, and not helping them give better gifts.
There’s also a possibility that Amazon sees this as a way to develop stronger ties to small businesses across the country. Amazon’s marketplace as a whole would undoubtedly benefit from high-quality artisan goods like these candies, but sometimes it’s hard to convince a small business to join a big operation like Amazon.
Interestingly, Amazon says that some of the candies sold aren’t yet even available individually on their own marketplace, but the company will provide the website of each artisan so you can purchase it directly from them — a goodwill gesture toward small businesses that will hopefully pay off down the road for the e-commerce giant.
 
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Amazon
FOUNDED
1994
OVERVIEW
Amazon is an e-commerce retailer formed originally to provide consumers with products in two segments. It offers users with merchandise and content purchased for resale from vendors and those offered by third-party sellers. Operating in North American and International markets, Amazon provides its services through websites such as amazon.com and amazon.ca. It also enables authors, musicians, filmmakers, …
LOCATION
Seattle, WA
CATEGORIES
Crowdsourcing, E-Commerce, Internet, Delivery, Retail, Software
FOUNDERS
Jeff Bezos
WEBSITE
http://amazon.com
Full profile for Amazon
Amazon Web Services
Amazon Echo
Dash
Dash
Amazon Dash
Dash Button
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan Raised $100 Millon | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes