Gadgets
CES 2017
Sony
Up to 10 of Sony’s new speakers can be linked together for a ‘portable party’
Posted 15 hours ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
Over the past few years, CES has become one giant A/V club for the folks at Sony. The show has essentially turned into a showcase for the hardware giant’s high-res TVs, headphones and speakers. And this year’s no different.
Sony is launching a metric ton of speakers this year, including the SRS-XB40, SRS-XB30, SRS-XB20 and SRS-XB10 (never change with those naming conventions, Sony) family, deemed, collectively, “a portable party.”
As the tagline implies, the devices are designed to be used in tandem, with a “wireless party chain” technology that makes it possible to connect up to 10 units via Bluetooth, across the different SKUs. Or, for a simpler approach, you can pair two and just listen in stereo mode.
The speakers also feature an array of different lighting features, controllable through the SongPal app, which also controls playback and power. The XB40, meanwhile, has a DJ-like control scheme configurable via the ridiculously named Fiestable app.
The speakers also offer voice feedback announcing battery levels and double as a backup battery for dying smartphones. The difference in models denote different sizes, and in some case lighting options. All will be available in Spring 2017 for an as of yet to be determined price. But just look at how excited all those people are in the above image.
Latest from CES 2017
VirZOOM mashes up VR, Fitbit and exercise
Segway's first robot launches to developer
Enlaps is a solar-powered, always-connected
Razer goes immersive with new in-room gaming

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Sony
FOUNDED
1946
OVERVIEW
Sony Australia is the Australian arm of Sony, a multinational conglomerate corporation that designs and develops electronic equipment, instruments, and devices. The company offers LCD televisions, audio systems, Blu-ray disc players, memory-based audio devices, personal computers, interchangeable single-lens cameras, PlayStations, batteries, audio/video/data recording media, storage media, optical …
LOCATION
Tokyo, 40
CATEGORIES
Consumer Electronics, Hardware, Software, Video on Demand
WEBSITE
http://www.sony.net/
Full profile for Sony
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Tesla's Gigafactory Starts Battery Production | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes