Hardware
Kyocera
Kyocera’s new phone is designed to be washed with soap and water
Posted 46 minutes ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
Curved screens and AR cameras are all well and good, but here’s a phone feature that extends beyond the flashy and gimmick to the potentially useful. I certainly think about running all of my gadgets under the faucet every time I travel on a plane or go a show like CES (finally getting over that cold).
The Rafre is actually the second soap-and-waterproof phone from Kyocera, following another model unveiled toward the end of 2015. This time out, the Android handset has the added bonus resistance to foaming body soap, according to press materials released earlier this week, so you can finally take the thing in the shower with you, if that’s your jam.
And the touchscreen works while wet, for anyone who wants to use it in the tub or just gets frequently caught in unexpected rainstorms.
The biggest caveat for the moment is the fact that the handset will only be available in Japan at launch, leaving the rest of us germaphobes in a bit of a lurch. Clean freaks in that country will be able to pick the Rafre up next month for a price that has yet to be determined.
The handset ships with Nougat, a 13-megapixel rear-facing camera and a 3,000mAh battery. Also, for some reason, it ships with a cooking app that users can scroll through with gestures – a strange selling point for one of the few phones that’s specifically designed to be washed off.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Kyocera Corporation
FOUNDED
1959
OVERVIEW
Kyocera Corporation, the parent and global headquarters of the Kyocera Group, was founded in 1959 as a producer of fine ceramics. By combining these engineered materials with metals and plastics, and integrating them with other technologies, Kyocera has become a supplier of electronic components and devices, solar power generating systems, telecommunications equipment, laser printers, copiers, semiconductor …
LOCATION
Kyoto-shi, 22
CATEGORIES
Semiconductor, Telecommunications, Electronics
WEBSITE
http://global.kyocera.com
Full profile for Kyocera Corporation
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes