Apple
Stolen
galaxy
s8
Crunch Report | Galaxy S8 Coming in March
Posted yesterday by Khaled "Tito" Hamze (@titoyooo)

Next Story
Today’s Stories 
Trump’s manufacturing council includes Elon Musk, Michael Dell and Mark Fields
Tesla sues ex-Autopilot director for taking proprietary info, poaching employees
Amazon adds ocean freight to the pieces of the shipping puzzle it controls
Samsung is reportedly launching the Galaxy S8 on March 29
Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John Mannes
Hosted and edited by: Tito Hamze
Filmed by: Joe Zolnoski
Teleprompter: Joe Zolnoski
Notes:
I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.
TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Tesla Motors
FOUNDED
2003
OVERVIEW
Tesla Motors was started by a group of Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and strives to create a revolution and accelerate the world’s transition to electric mobility with a full range of increasingly affordable electric cars. Tesla vehicles are EVs (electric vehicles), which are transforming the way people drive and move. Tesla has gone public as of June 29, 2010 and has a market cap of $34.32 billion. …
LOCATION
Palo Alto, CA
CATEGORIES
Automotive, Electronics, Innovation Management
WEBSITE
https://www.tesla.com/
Full profile for Tesla Motors
Donald J. Trump
Samsung Electronics
iCloud
TechCrunch
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes