Policy
Uber
immigration
donald trump
Uber CEO offers compensation for drivers impacted by immigration ban, will talk to Trump
Posted 2 hours ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
Uber co-founder and CEO Travis Kalanick added his voice today to a growing chorus of tech executives troubled by President Donald Trump’s recent immigration order banning the entry of US residents from seven countries.
Echoing the sentiments of Google’s Sundar Pichai and Microsoft’s Satya Nadella, Kalanick wrote a letter to Uber staff, also posting to his Facebook wall. According to the executive, the ride sharing company has reached out to the dozen or so employees directly impacted by the action.
But, as Kalanick adds, the immediate impact will be far broader for the company, hitting thousands of Uber drivers who often travel back to their countries of origin to visit family.
“We are working out a process to identify these drivers and compensate them pro bono during the next three months to help mitigate some of the financial stress and complications with supporting their families and putting food on the table,” Kalanick wrote in the memo. “We will have more details on this in the coming days.”
An Uber spokesperson has since confirmed with TechCrunch that the process to determine which drivers will be directly impacted is already underway, though the company will not give a specific timeframe for issuing the compensation.
Kalanick also took the opportunity to address his decision to join Trump’s economic advisory group last month, alongside such tech executives as Elon Musk and Ginni Rometty. The CEO explains that he hoped the gig would offer a chance to help give “citizens a voice,” adding,
[T]his ban will impact many innocent people—an issue that I will raise this coming Friday when I go to Washington for President Trump’s first business advisory group meeting.
This afternoon I sent the email below to Uber employees:
Team,
Yesterday President Trump signed an executive order suspending entry of citizens from seven countries—Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen—to the United States for at least the next 90 days.
Our People Ops team has already reached out to the dozen or so employees who we know are affected: for example, those who live and work in the U.S., are legal residents but not naturalized citizens will not be able to get back into the country if they are traveling outside of the U.S. now or anytime in the next 90 days. Anyone who believes that this order could impact them should contact immigration@uber.com immediately.
Read more
Additional reporting by Kate Conger.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Donald J. Trump
BIO
Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American business magnate, investor, author, television personality and the newly elected President of the United States in the 2016 presidential election. He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization, and the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts. Trump's career, branding efforts, lifestyle and outspoken manner helped make him a celebrity, …
Full profile for Donald J. Trump
Uber
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes