Microsoft
immigration
trump
Tech reacts to Trump’s immigration ban
Posted 1 hour ago by Frederic Lardinois (@fredericl), Kate Conger (@kateconger)

Next Story
At first, President Trump’s immigration order looked like it would mostly affect refugees from seven majority Muslim nations (which itself is shameful). The order is so sweeping, however, that it also includes any green card and visa holders from these countries. So if you were a citizen of these countries (Iran, Iraq, Syria and Sudan. Libya, Yemen and Somalia) and had the bad luck of being outside of the U.S. at the time the order went into effect, you’re now barred from entering the country for at least the next 90 days. Unsurprisingly, that’s already affecting the employees of many of the largest tech companies, which tend to draw from a global talent pool.
We know that Google already recalled its employees from abroad — though chances are the alert came too late to allow anybody to travel back to the U.S. in time. “We’re concerned about the impact of this order and any proposals that could impose restrictions on Googlers and their families, or that create barriers to bringing great talent to the U.S.,” the company wrote in an official statement. “We’ll continue to make our views on these issues known to leaders in Washington and elsewhere.”
Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, too, yesterday noted in a Facebook post that he is “concerned about the impact of the recent executive orders signed by President Trump” though he also added that he was “glad” that Trump was willing “to ‘work something out’ for Dreamers” and that the President “believes our country should continue to benefit from ‘people of great talent coming into the country.’”
Facebook added in a statement today, “We are assessing the impact on our workforce and determining how best to protect our people and their families from any adverse effects.”
We reached out to a number of the biggest U.S.-based tech companies for comment about how they are reacting to this situation. Most have not responded yet, but Microsoft told us that it is already providing legal assistance to its employees affected by this: “We share the concerns about the impact of the executive order on our employees from the listed countries, all of whom have been in the United States lawfully, and we’re actively working with them to provide legal advice and assistance.”
We will update this post as we receive more comments and statements.
It’s worth noting that a number of other tech CEOs and luminaries have also been outspoken about the ban. Box CEO Aaron Levie, for example, took to Twitter to voice his displeasure with the ban.
“We’re very much against the ban and will be working to both protect our employees but also work to make it clear that this is unacceptable and fight it however possible,” Levie also told us in an email.
Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky offered a brief statement on Twitter that obliquely referenced Trump’s executive order:
Y Combinator’s Sam Altman today also took to his blog to express his views and implore tech companies to take a public stand. “It is time for tech companies to start speaking up about some of the actions taken by President Trump’s administration,” he wrote and later on added that “if this action has not crossed a line for you, I suggest you think now about what your own line in the sand is.  It’s easy, with gradual escalation, for the definition of ‘acceptable’ to get moved.  So think now about what action President Trump might take that you would consider crossing a line, and write it down.”
Altman did not address the role Y Combinator partner Peter Thiel is playing in the Trump administration.
FEATURED IMAGE: NATASHA JAPP PHOTOGRAPHY/GETTY IMAGES

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Microsoft
FOUNDED
1974
OVERVIEW
Microsoft is an American multinational corporation that develops, manufactures, licenses, supports, and sells a range of software products and services. Microsoft’s devices and consumer (D&C) licensing segment licenses Windows operating system and related software; Microsoft Office for consumers; and Windows Phone operating system. The company’s computing and gaming hardware segment provides Xbox …
LOCATION
Redmond, WA
CATEGORIES
Collaboration, Developer Tools, Cloud Computing, Software, Enterprise Software, Operating Systems
WEBSITE
http://www.microsoft.com
Full profile for Microsoft
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Galaxy S8 Coming in March | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes