Gadgets
CES 2017
E Ink
E-Ink and Quirk Logic look to replace whiteboards with 42-inch Quilla displays
Posted 18 hours ago by Devin Coldewey, Contributor

Next Story
What would you do if you had an e-reader the size of a TV? Probably not read books. E-Ink and Quirk Logic think you’d write on it, and that’s what they hope you’ll do with the Quilla, a 42-inch display that works as both signage and a digital whiteboard.
I’m a sucker for e-paper stuff in general, but this thing is also just pretty cool. It’s the first application of the largest display E-Ink has created, and the result of a three-year collaboration with Quirk Logic.
The battery-powered Quilla weighs about 22 pounds and is less than 2mm thick, making it easy to hang on the wall or take down and put on a table It’s 2160×2880 — kind of a nowhere resolution between 2K and 4K, but enough that it won’t hurt your eyes while you’re annotating a huge map or sketching out a workflow.
It’s sort of like a minimalist Surface Hub: no crazy multi-touch gestures or movies for this thing, but you can throw graphics up there, save what you’ve sketched or written, and connect multiple Quillas to make a multi-headed megadisplay.
Latest from CES 2017
Garmin makes a multisport watch for
Nemonic is like Post-It notes with IoT smarts
Lego targets pre-Mindstorms minds with its
Airthings wants you to measure the Radon in

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
E Ink
FOUNDED
1997
OVERVIEW
E Ink Corp. is a supplier of electronic paper display (EPD) technologies. Products made with E Ink's electronic ink are designed to possess a paper-like high contrast appearance, ultra-low power consumption and a thin, light form. E Ink's technology is tailored for many consumer and industrial applications including handheld devices, watches, clocks and public information and promotional signs.
LOCATION
Cambridge, MA
CATEGORIES
Hardware, Electronics, Manufacturing
FOUNDERS
Joe Jacobson, J.D. Albert, Russ Wilcox, Jeremy Rubin, Barrett Comiskey
WEBSITE
http://www.eink.com
Full profile for E Ink
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Intel Buys 15% of Here Mapping Business | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes