Gadgets
withings
CES 2017
CES
Here’s a smart hairbrush with a built-in microphone from Withings and L’Oreal
Posted 40 minutes ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
How do you know when things have gone full-on CES? It’s probably a pretty good sign when people start launching smart hairbrushes. Like the many connected toothbrushes that have come before it, the Kérastase Hair Coach Powered by Withings is an attempt to convince the early adopting public that their dumb old products just aren’t cutting it in this ever more connected world.
The bizarre beauty product has a whole bunch of sensors baked in to create a quantified analysis of the user’s hair, because, “According to a report published by L’Oréal scientists, forceful hair brushing has been proven to cause hair damage, including breakage and split ends.” Hard to argue with results like that.
There’s an on-board microphone designed to listen to brushing patterns, “providing insights into manageability, frizziness, dryness, split ends and breakage.” There are also sensors for measuring the force applied to the scalp, an accelerometer and gyroscope to analyze brushing patters and conductivity sensors for measuring dampness.
All of that gets beamed to a connected app via Bluetooth, which cross references environmental considerations like humidity, temperature and wind to offer recommendations and a “hair quality score.”
The brush does actually appear destined for retail, arriving mid-year for $200.
Latest from CES 2017
The da Vinci Nano is a full-fledged 3D
Netatmo is trying really hard to make the
Ultrahaptics is coming to a car near you in
Qualcomm kicks its automotive ambitions up

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Withings
FOUNDED
2008
OVERVIEW
Withings is a Paris-based company that specializes in the development of connected objects. The company's first product was the connected body scale, which officially launched in June 2009.
LOCATION
Issy-les-moulineaux, A8
CATEGORIES
Health Care, Consumer Electronics, Hardware, Software
FOUNDERS
Cedric Hutchings
WEBSITE
http://www.withings.com
Full profile for Withings
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Happy New Year from Crunch Report!
Watch More Episodes