Wearables
CES 2017
Earin introduces another really small pair of truly wireless earbuds
Posted 20 hours ago by Brian Heater (@bheater)

Next Story
While plenty of companies are rushing to bring fully wireless earbuds to the market, the phenomenon is already old hat for Earin. The company launched its first product way back in 2015 to mixed reviews, following a successful crowdfunding campaign.
This CES, the startup is back for more with the M2, a pair of extremely small buds featuring built-in touch control. Of course, a lot has happened in the days since the company offered up its first generation product, including entries from such hardware giants as Apple and Samsung. Not to mention what is sure to be a glut of likeminded products this week in Vegas.
But hopefully the company’s experience with its first-gen product will help make the M2 a contender. This time out, the company has sought to improve the wireless connection between the buds by why of a combination of dual antenna and Near Field Magnetic Induction technologies.
The product has also been redesigned a bit, with the company claiming that the product is the “smallest and lightest” on the market (a claim similar to the one it made last time out) – either a plus or minus depending on the size of your ear and your tendency to lose small but expensive electronic devices. There’s touch control built into the tip of the bud as well, letting users play/pause and advance tracks with a tap.
The battery life is rated at a modest three hours, augmented to a full 12 hours when including the magnetic charging case. No word on pricing, but the buds are set to start shipping this quarter.
Latest from CES 2017
Garmin makes a multisport watch for
Nemonic is like Post-It notes with IoT smarts
Lego targets pre-Mindstorms minds with its
Airthings wants you to measure the Radon in

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Earin
FOUNDED
2014
OVERVIEW
Earin is the smallest, wireless earbuds available on the market. Two earbuds that together function as one Bluetooth headphone, no cables, no attachments just magically small delivering high quality audio.
CATEGORIES
Apps
WEBSITE
http://www.earin.com/
Full profile for Earin
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Intel Buys 15% of Here Mapping Business | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes