Government
Twitter
jack dorsey
Jack Dorsey apologizes for Twitter glitch forcing some users to follow Trump’s @POTUS
Posted yesterday by Lora Kolodny (@lorakolodny)

Next Story
Twitter chief Jack Dorsey today apologized for what he says were technical problems causing some Twitter users to involuntarily follow the @POTUS account as it was handed over to Donald Trump. As Sarah Perez reported here yesterday, Twitter users were bewildered as to why they were forced to follow the Trump @POTUS account, and many accused Twitter of doing the new administration’s bidding.
Dorsey published his explanation, as a tweetstorm of course, on Saturday afternoon as the Women’s March, protesting the Trump administration, was underway in both Washington D.C. and satellite cities connected to the movement around the US.
In summary, Dorsey said that the issues effected more than half a million Twitter users and the company was making no excuses for its errors.
He explained that the White House, prior to former President Barack Obama’s departure, had worked on a social media transition plan that determined the “institutional” account of @POTUS on Twitter would be handed over with followers in tact. Twitter meant to have all followers of Barack Obama’s @POTUS account “migrated” to follow both @POTUS44, the 44th administration, and the Trump administration @POTUS.
However, Twitter bungled the handover. Some people who followed @POTUS44 after a certain time were auto-subscribed to @POTUS even if they explicitly had avoided the account earlier and did not want to see Trump’s tweets in their stream, for example.
You can read Dorsey’s apology in full here.
        FEATURED IMAGE: TECHCRUNCH / MATTHEW LYNLEY

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
Crunchbase
Jack Dorsey
BIO
Jack Dorsey is the creator, co-founder, and Chairman of Twitter and co-founder & CEO of Square.Originally from St. Louis, Jack's early fascination for mass-transit and how cities function led him to Manhattan and programming real-time messaging systems for couriers, taxis, and emergency vehicles. Throughout this work, Jack witnessed thousands of workers in the field constantly updating where they …
Full profile for Jack Dorsey
Twitter
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Daily Crunch
Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your inbox
TC Weekly Roundup
Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories
Crunchbase Daily
The latest startup funding announcements
Enter Address
SUBSCRIBE
SEE ALL NEWSLETTERS »
Latest Crunch Report
Apple Suing Qualcomm for $1 Billion | Crunch Report
Watch More Episodes